- [Instructor] In the Spring world,
reactive development is some of the hottest craze
that's going on right now,
and I'm not going to get too deep into reactive,
but I do want to point out some of the changes
that came across with Spring 5
and Spring Boot 2.0.
So there's some library changes that came across
with this version upgrade of Spring.
So we have Reactor version 3.1 of Flux and Mono,
RxJava 3.1 and 2.1,
and we now can return Flux or Mono
from MVC controller methods
by using this new upgraded library.
We also get a new construct called WebClient,
and WebClient is comparable to RestTemplate,
but it supports both functional
and reactive API calls over HTTP.
It is non-blocking and it supports streaming,
and it replaces the now deprecated AsyncRestTemplate
that was not nearly as efficient as WebClient is.
There's also a new module called spring-webflux,
and this is an alternative to traditional spring-webmvc.
As you might guess, it's reactive.
It's asynchronous and non-blocking.
It supports event loops and backpressure.
And there are associated changes that go with this
in spring-core,
and we've talked about some of those,
especially around the NIO changes.
There's also now WebFlux Controller,
and this should be very familiar
for anyone who's done web development
with the @Controller annotation like we did previously.
But this is now specifically for WebFlux
or reactive programming.
Again, there's backpressure support
all the way to the socket for non-blocking IO.
We have Undertow and Netty support
for this WebFlux Controller,
and there's also a new WebFlux.fn functional model
as an alternative to the @Controller annotation,
and that's new with Spring 5.
Now, I'm not really going to get too much deeper
into reactive programming.
There's a whole course out in the library
on reactive development with Spring.
But just know that there were some changes and upgrades,
and I think it's pretty clear to say
that this is the direction that we will see
a lot of web going over the next two to three years,
especially in the Spring framework itself.